Biography of a Software Engineer.

Linus Torvalds was born in Helsinki, Finland on 28 December 1969. 
His parents were both journalists, and his grandfathers were Leo Tornqvist and Ole Torvalds, a statistician and poet respectively. 
He attended the University of Helsinki in 1988 till 1996. 
After his first year of attending, he joined the Finnish army to complete the 11 month mandatory service requirement. 
He earned the rank of Second Lieutenant, with the artillery observer role. 
Upon returning to the University of Helsinki, he began reading Andrew Tanenbaum’s book Operating Systems: Design and Implementation, and was introduced to UNIX operating system for the first time. 
His master thesis was titled Linux: A Portable Operating System. 
He finished his time in the University of Helsinki with a masters in Computer Science. 
He began programming at the age of 11 with a Commodore VIC-20 using BASIC, but moved to directly accessing the CPU using machine code. 
He began modifying his new computer, a Sinclair QL and their operating systems, writing his own assembler and editor “because it was so difficult to get software in Finland”1. 
He began working on Linux upon the purchase of an Intel 80386 clone of an IBM PC and receiving a copy of MINIX.
The original prototypes of Linux came out in 1991, with 1.0 releasing on 14 March 1994. 
After attending a speech by free software icon Richard Stallman speak about his GNU Project, Torvalds began using it in his Linux kernel.
Torvalds worked for Transmeta from early 1997 until mid-2003. 
He then moved to Open Source Development Labs, which became the Linux foundation where he continues to work. He now lives in Oregon. 
His personal mascot of Tux the penguin has been widely adopted by the Linux community as a mascot for the kernel. 
While Torvalds has been a champion for open source and free software, he received criticism for the use of proprietary software BitKeeper when designing Linux. 
He then wrote and designed the free version of the same sort of software, which he named Git. 
Torvalds works full time on improving Linux through sponsorship by the Linux Foundation. 
This is done by coding significantly less than he used to, but by merging code that should become part of the kernel.
He still maintains final say on what becomes part of the kernel.
Despite no longer programming full-time, his code (roughly 2%) represents one of the largests single contributions to the kernel.
Due to his interest in scuba-diving, he created Subsurface, a software for logging and planning scuba-dives. 
He has been named by Time magazine as one of the most influential people in the world.



References:
1. https://opensource.googleblog.com/2010/09/geek-time-with-linus-torvalds.html, 11/11/20
